# text to SPEECH 
Text-to-Speech Web Application

This project is a simple web application that uses Google Cloud's Text-to-Speech API to convert text into speech. Users can input text, and the application will synthesize the speech and play it back as an audio file.
Features

    Text-to-Speech Conversion: Converts entered text into speech using the Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API.
    Audio Playback: Plays the generated speech as an MP3 file in the browser.
    Simple and Interactive UI: A clean and responsive design for users to input their text and interact with the application.

Technologies Used

    Frontend:
        HTML5
        CSS3
        JavaScript
    Backend:
        Node.js
        Express.js
        Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API
    Additional:
        CORS for cross-origin requests
        Body-parser for handling JSON data

Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

    Google Cloud Account: You need a Google Cloud account with the Text-to-Speech API enabled. You also need to configure authentication using a service account key (JSON file). You can follow the Getting Started guide to set up your credentials.
    Node.js and npm: This project requires Node.js and npm. You can download and install them from here.

Setup Instructions

    Clone the repository:

git clone <repository-url>
cd text-to-speech

Install dependencies: Install the required npm packages:

npm install

Set up Google Cloud credentials: Download your Google Cloud service account key (JSON file) and set the GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS environment variable to point to it. Run the following command in your terminal (replace the path with the location of your key file):

export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="/path/to/your-service-account-key.json"

Run the application: After setting up the environment, start the server:

    node index.js

    The application should now be running on http://localhost:3000.

    Access the application: Open your browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000 to start using the Text-to-Speech service.

Usage

    On the main page, enter any text you want to convert into speech in the text area.
    Click the Speak button to generate the speech.
    The generated audio will automatically play after synthesis.

Troubleshooting

    Error: Could not load the default credentials: Ensure that you've correctly set up your Google Cloud credentials and the GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS environment variable points to the correct service account key file.
    500 Internal Server Error: This might indicate issues with the backend (e.g., misconfigured API credentials or network issues). Check the server logs for more details.

License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
Requirements

To use the Text-to-Speech functionality in this project, you need to have access to Google Cloud services. Specifically, the Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API is required.
Steps to Enable Google Cloud Text-to-Speech

    Create a Google Cloud Project:
        Go to the Google Cloud Console.
        Create a new project or use an existing one.

    Enable the Text-to-Speech API:
        In your Google Cloud project, navigate to APIs & Services > Library.
        Search for "Text-to-Speech API" and click Enable.

    Set Up Authentication:
        Go to APIs & Services > Credentials.
        Click on Create Credentials > Service Account.
        Download the generated JSON file and save it securely.

    Set the Environment Variable:
        Ensure your system can locate the authentication file by setting the GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS environment variable:

        export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="path/to/your/credentials-file.json"

        Replace path/to/your/credentials-file.json with the actual path to your JSON file.

Notes

    Billing Required: The Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API is not free. You need to have a billing account set up to use it.
    Ensure you monitor usage to avoid unexpected costs.